Last week, Mark Zuckerberg put a freeze
on all AI hiring at Meta, just weeks
after spending billions of dollars
poaching top talent from competitors
like Open AI. Meanwhile, in a story few
could have foreseen, everybody in
Silicon Valley seems to be talking about
an AI bubble. In part, because it was
recently revealed that 95% of AIdriven
projects fail. And that's not just some
random number I pulled out of nowhere.
It's based on an MIT study that analyzed
the results of companies using AI. It
spooked investors who are relying on AI
to maintain irrational exuberance in the
markets. And Sam Alman himself said
this. Are we in a phase where investors
as a whole are over excited about AI? In
my opinion, yes. So, in today's video,
we'll find out if the AI hype train is
about to reach its terminus. It is
August 25th, 2025, and you're watching
the code report. I've been using AI
coding tools from the very beginning
because, believe it or not, I actually
hate writing code. I do like developing
software, and the code is just a means
to an end. After multiple years of using
AI to write code, I still don't feel
like a 10x developer. Sometimes I feel
like a 2x developer, while other times I
feel more like a 0.5x developer. And
apparently, I'm not the only one. This
recent study from MIT analyzed 300
public deployments, interviewed 150
leaders, and surveyed 350 employees
connected to recent AI integrations.
We're talking about 30 to 40 billion in
enterprise investment into generative
AI. And yet it was found that 95% of
them failed to achieve the goal of rapid
revenue acceleration. In fact, almost
all of them experienced little to no
measurable impact on the bottom line. In
addition, the study found that companies
that tried to roll out their own AI
tooling had a much higher failure rate
because why pay for an AI tool when you
can build a worse version yourself.
Companies that paid a third party were
better off. And I think the moral of the
story here is that it's a great time to
be an enterprise AI shovel salesman. But
despite the high failure rate in the
study, there are some great success
stories out there. Like back in 2023,
enterprise software company Ignite CEO
Eric Vaughn fired 80% of his developers
and replaced them with AI. It's now 2
years later and he has no regrets and
says the decision is now delivering 75%
profit margins. And ultimately, the
interpretation of the MIT study was that
it's not the fault of the AI models that
the AI sucks at making money. The models
are definitely smart enough. It's just
the humans suck at using them. It's
nothing but a skill issue. The AI
integrations failed due to brittle
workflows, lack of context, and
misalignment with day-to-day operations.
Many have failed to realize that AI vibe
coding is almost identical to crack.
After the first hit, you feel
invincible, like you could write a
billion dollar piece of software in
hours. But then 200 hits later, you've
got nothing but errors in $100,000 cla
bill, and you're still convinced that
the next prompt is going to be the one
that fixes it all. With all the slop
intensifying, it looks like programmers
should still have a job writing code for
the foreseeable future, which is why you
need to check out Tupil, the sponsor of
today's video. It's a remote pair
programming app for Mac OS and Windows
that's loved by teams at Shopify, Clerk,
and many more. That's because it gives
you high-risisk screen sharing that lets
you see the tiny text in each other's
IDE, plus shared remote control with
super low latency, so it feels like your
team is working together on a single
machine. It's like Figma and Zoom had a
baby that was built specifically for
developers, but the entire app is
written in C++, so it won't hog all your
CPU cycles either. You can try Tupal for
free at the link below, or use code
fireship to get a special discount for
your entire team. This has been the Code
Report. Thanks for watching and I will
see you in the next